now meanwhile the UN says a school being
used as a shelter has been damaged after
Israel launched an air strike near the
building officials in Gaza say at least
20 people were killed in the bombing the
humanitarian situation in the territory
remains dire with more than a million
people displaced and many without food
or
water the aftermath of an air strike on
a school turn shelter run in the
northern Gaza Strip officials from the
Hamas run health Ministry say at least
20 people were killed in the
attack children under 10 were cut into
pieces where are the Arabs where is the
Muslim Nation where is the spirit of
Islam dead children were falling before
our eyes what did we
do those wounded in strikes are taken to
overcrowded hospitals where anesthetic
and Medicine are running out an Israeli
embargo on fuel entering Gaza means the
generators that power life support
systems for newborns and critically ill
patients will soon stop running Israeli
officials say they will transfer fuel to
hospitals when they deem it
necessary so far we have not allowed
fuel into the Gaza Strip we are checking
the situation there every day note that
for more than a week now they have been
telling us that tomorrow the fuel in
hospitals will run out so far it has not
run out
we will watch for when that day arrives
fuel will be transferred with monitoring
to the hospitals we will do everything
needed to ensure that it will not reach
Hamas infrastructures that it will not
end up serving War aims but the real
needs of treating the
sick the Israeli strikes on Gaza have
left over a million Palestinians
displaced with nowhere left to go some
families have had to take shelter in
their
cars we were in Northern Gaza and we
moved moved to another region but there
was also bombardment we sought refuge in
the schools but then they were bombed so
we came here to hunas there isn't enough
space the men have set up tents outside
but there's nowhere to sleep we sleep in
the cars there's nowhere for the
children everyone sleeps in their
cars Egypt has allowed several hundred
people to leave Gaza via the Rafa border
crossing but most Gins are
trapped Israel says it's ground forces
have completely surrounded Gaza City
they say their troops are advancing
despite quote painful losses the
militants are reported to have laid
mines and booby traps in the area and
have threatened to mount strong
resistance the Israeli military says
Gaza City is the center of hamas's
Terror organization Israel launched its
attacks on Gaza in response to the
massacre by Hamas of more than 1,400
people in
Israel and an IDF spokesperson gave more
details of the new phase of the ground
operation Israel Defense Forces Fighters
have completed the encirclement of Gaza
City the center of the Hamas terrorist
organization in the last hours artillery
and infantry along with the Air Force
have been attacking bases headquarters
concentration points and other Terror
infrastructure used by Hamas and his
terrorists so as Israel says its forces
have encircled Gaza City I spoke earlier
to military analyst Marina and I asked
her if this means the war is entering a
new
phase good morning CLA well um Israel
had announced yesterday that it started
its phase three and it looks like this
phase three will be encirclement or the
siege of Gaza City because it's
surrounded from all sides we don't know
if Israel is going to leave a vent open
for the civilians to escape this is a
concern amongst others from the United
States um in terms of the humanitarian
cost but it would look like Israel is
trying to weaken hamas's ability to
resist probably before entering Gaza
City itself and starting the um much
dreaded Urban combat now the IDF has
also said its soldiers are in close
quarters combat with Hamas Fighters
there can you describe for us what
challenges and risks there are in an
operation like this uh including to
civilian
life well that's probably the EST risk
which has political ramifications
because Israel would um lose support or
or risk to lose support if too many
civilians die during this operation
however this is a nature of urban combat
and unfortunately there is no one good
way around it and the urban combat is
very slow is very bloody it means
they're fighting house by house having
to clear everything from the basement to
the rooftop and we have the added issue
here of a multi m- layered tunnel system
meaning that Hamas fighters who know it
very well can just pop out in one place
where the Israeli forces are not
expecting them making it even more
difficult and the Army has also now said
it's encountering mines and booby traps
um and that the militants have prepared
themselves do you think the IDF will be
surprised by their
capabilities well I think IDF is
understanding now the the capabilities
that Hamas has and there was an
encounter in 2014 so don't think it's a
huge surprise besides those tactics are
being used by um different Insurgent
groups um when it comes to such
scenarios they are trying to make it as
difficult as it is for the opposing
force to move forward and they might be
using humans as a shield to make the
operation even more challenging and I
want to look at the broader Regional
implications there's of course a lot of
concern about this war spilling over
we're already seeing attempts by the
islamist houthi rebels in Yemen uh
firing missiles and drones at Israel at
this point How concerned would you be
about wider spill over in the
region I think it is very possible
especially since Israel is already in
Gaza so to say and we've heard the likes
of Iran threatening that Israel would
cross a red line so there is a
possibility that Iran would get further
involved in activating its proxies on
the one hand another front could be open
in the North of Israel but it also has
broader Regional implications and
implications for the entire world
because as a grp sympathetic to Hamas or
perhaps not so sympathetic but they're
against Israel a calling for killing
Jews um Americans and Brits because
Americans and Brits are supporting
Israel and have deployed reinforcements
to the region so we should be worried
that this war is not just going to be
limited to the Middle East and tell us
more about that Northern front I'm
curious if you could spell out the
specifics for us about what the concerns
are at the Lebanese
border well the concerns are is that
Hezbollah might try to intensify its
attacks and it might essentially spill
over or even um try to conduct
incursions however we don't know how far
Iran is uh willing to risk losing its
proxy by having it entering the war
completely rather than being a
distraction and rather than um trying to
keep the Israeli forces tied in that
region let's see bring it back across to
our correspondent Rebecca riters in Tel
Aviv Rebecca Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin is in Israel uh what is Israel
expecting to hear from him on this
trip well Anthony blinkin is making his
third visit to Israel today showing just
how serious this situation is how
important this is for the US he'll be
bringing with him of course the message
of solidarity with Israel that he's
brought with him in his last visits and
he's also going to be working towards
getting the US hostages the US Jewel
Nationals now I'm standing here at a
monument for the hostages protest if you
will uh from Israelis who were demanding
that the hostages be able to be released
and that this ground invasion of israels
is preventing that from happening uh the
other things on blinken's agenda today
will of course uh be the next stages in
this war he's going to be calling for
these limited ceasefires these limited
humanitarian ceasefires uh so that they
can get humanitarian Aid into Gaza and
some more of the at least the 7,000 juw
Nationals that are listed uh give them
passage outside of the Gaza Strip but
he's also going to be here to look
forward to what happens in a postwar uh
Gaza who will be beginning the talks of
who will be running the strip and
looking at the next moves though it's
very early days you've been hearing
earlier in the program this now entering
its third phase this war so I think the
the postwar phase uh is still someway
off so looking ahead to some of those
major political questions that remain
open um tell us about the military
operations currently Israel's military
has announced the complete encirclement
of gaza's largest
city yeah well we're were hearing it
early in the program they've now
completely encircled the city we do
believe that they've completely cut off
the main arterial roads from the north
to the South as was thought was going to
be part of their plan we know they've
been calling for for weeks now for
Citizens uh gazans in the the northern
Gaza Strip to move to the South now any
of the ones who remained any of the ones
who stayed are going to be find it
almost impossible to evacuate that area
now and it's looks as though they're
going to begin this ground this close
combat ground um inside sorry hand
hand-to-hand combat basically coming out
of the tanks and moving uh into Gaza
City itself now that's going to cause
lots of problems and we may see the
death hole of the Israeli military rise
quite significantly when we get into
this Urban Warfare it's very complicated
Close Quarter fighting and you know
Hamas know the territory very well their
Fighters have a network of tunnels that
they're able to use to pop out and
surprise is the Israeli military we did
see already the death toll of the
Israeli military rise overnight that's
standing at 23 at the moment
the civilian death toll in Gaza still
around the 9,000 Mark but we'll have
some new figures later today uh the next
phase looking to be bloody and
exhausting and long indeed those numbers
uh from the Hamas run uh Gaza health
authority now as all this is happening
Israel has announced that it is going to
be sending gazin who are currently
working in Israel back into besieged
Gaza can you tell us a little bit more
about this
announcement
yeah we heard that last night we're
actually seeing that many have already
been returned this morning CLA I'm not
able to give you exact figures of how
many people uh were from Gaza were
inside Israel at the time but we know
that around about 20,000 gazan work
workers have permits to work inside
Israel and many were separated from
their families when this conflict began
they weren't able to return into Gaza uh
and now they're being forced to go back
forced to go back and and and and now
will now be in the besieged strip uh the
the the the security announcement or the
announcement that came along with this
that there'll be no relationship between
Gaza and Israel after this as I said
we'll have to see its early days to know
exactly what's going to happen in a post
conflict world uh but at this stage
those gazin seem to if not completely
returned that will be happening in the
next hours and what can you tell us uh
about the current situation in the West
Bank where tensions have been running
High
well the tensions have been running high
in the West Bank uh well I mean they're
always relatively High particularly in
the last year 18 months CLA but since
this conflict began there there's been a
massive spike in tensions overnight we
saw another quite large and long raid on
the Janine Camp uh we believe that five
people have been killed in F five
Palestinians were killed in fighting
there and we've seen a spike in settler
violence as well yesterday it was a
particularly bad day we saw around the
Naas area many settlers coming down and
burning property that's something else
that's going to be on the agenda of U of
Anthony blinkin when he's here today
going to call for PE you know the the
leaders here to be getting everybody to
try and cool their Jets nobody wants to
see a third front open up in the West
Bank but at the moment we're seeing
those tensions rise and of course that
is the fear that that people are going
to be so um exasperated there that this
violence is going to continue and we
could well see a front opening up on the
West Bank Rebecca many thanks for your
reporting that's Rebecca riters for us
in Tel
Aviv